So there was one thing that happened when I was president, yes, hit the newspapers,
well hit the Jewish Chronicle, is when I first started there was still a bit of
antagonism between some people of the Orthodox and some people of the Reform.
And when I started there was a Bar Mitzvah coming up where the mother was a
member of the Orthodox, the father was a member of the Orthodox and the Reform,
but the father's family were members of the Reform. And as I told you, you
read the law on the Saturday and you give segments to various members of the
thing. And the father, they're quite wealthy people, they've always got their own way.
And the father told me that there's two things he wants. He wants his father to
be called up to read the law as the most important one. And also they're having a
function in the City Hall but they don't want it to be supervised because if it's
supervised, the person supervising might tell someone what a surprise the meal is
going to be. I thought, God, yeah, I've got to put up with all this. So I said, look, as far as I'm
aware, you've got to have it supervised but we'll try and be flexible because
also they're having, the City Hall hasn't got kosher kitchen, so all the
ovens in the City Hall have to be sort of koshered, cleaned, and they're having
special pots and pans, good. I said, but then it's got to be supervised so
everything is okay because you've got so many people coming, you know, from various
strands of the religion. I said, you know, I've got a problem in that at the moment
it's changed because of this. At the moment the Constitution of the Cardiff
United Synagogue says that if you're a member of the Reform Trial, you can't be
called up. So which is a terrible thing for the grandfather but we had people
around me who said this is how it is. He was a member, this is the point, he was a
member of the Orthodox and he left and became a member of the Reform and he knew
that when he became a member of the Reform he could never be called up in
the thing. So in the end we had a rabbi visiting that week and the person who
ran the services who was very right-wing said the rabbi can't make a
presentation, they always present the boy with, called a humish, which is a book of
Bible in Jewish and Hebrew and he said we're not presenting the boy with a
humish and we're not going to have a sermon. So I said but it's not the boy's
fault, it's the boy's big day, what do you want to do in the boy's day over this? I
said he's got to. So they said no, as far as we're concerned, no. So I went to see them
and I said look we've got to do something about this. So I said I'll tell you what I
can do and I said I'll arrange for the supervision of the food and everything to
be done and our kosher, the arrangement for the everything to be kosher, some
rituals, so you needn't worry, done. Someone will go in at six o'clock in the
morning, the man suing the supervision will go in at six o'clock in the morning,
they'll clean the ovens, the man who's supervising the food will leave at nine
o'clock. So if you want to do anything extra after nine it won't be supervised
but we'll accept it. And I said as far as your father's concerned he can't be
called up to read the law but I'll arrange for him to be called up to have
some other honour, lesser honour. And they said fine, okay. So then the day before
this permits Friday night doing surgery I get a phone call, you've got to
come here straight away. I said I can't go, I'm in the middle of surgery. No you've got
to come straight away. I said what's happened? The family said they don't want
the father to have the special honour, they want him to read the law and
therefore the senior warden says if that's the case I'm not going in to at
six o'clock in the morning and to do all this. So I thought hell. So what happened
in the end is I did the presentation, I gave the sermon in the synagogue and
the family, and also I praised the grandfather, how wonderful it's to see him
fit and well and he survived the Holocaust and we're pleased to see him etc etc.
And the family came up and thanked me, said thank you very much, you've made
the day, you know it's been a wonderful day and everyone was happy. Six months
later, six months later, headlines in the Jewish Chronicle, Shul prevents
grandfather from being called up for his grandson's permits for and the
grandfather had given this whole story to the Jewish Chronicle. Now A, it was
wrong, so I wrote it, but B, the Jewish Chronicle have writers who are
syndicated all over the world, so two of the people who have actually
attacked me personally over this as if I was the one to blather, I was trying to
smooth things over and what happened was when my son went to Australia
and he got called up in the synagogue and they said, what's your name?
He said, where you from Carl? He said, you're no relation to that man who refused to
let the grandfather, and he said, yes, he said, well we feel like shucking you off.
So that was quite dramatic, that was goes down in the history, but
that's changed now, they had to change it because there's so few men and so
you know through actual what's going on they had to change the Constitution.